I wanna talk about how you could share
machines between different components.
And there's really in reacts there's two
ways to do this, in XD just using XD
in a general way there is one way
which is interpreting that machine.
And basically subscribing to that
interpreted machine from anywhere,
and we could essentially do the same
thing with the use service hook.
So let's say that we have,
actually let's take a look at
a real example over here
in the complete app.
We have a clock,
just go back to complete we have
a clock over here that
basically gives us the time.
And let's select the time zone
like somewhere in Africa, so
this is showing the correct time.
And so we have this clock component and
also we have this foreign
clock components.
What we want to do though,
is we want to synchronize this with this.
So basically we want to listen for
changes on this machine and
have it be reflected in
that machine over there.
Now if you're coming from Redux or
you're using just React with,
use reducer,
this might seem like a familiar problem.
You have some global data which you
want to somehow use everywhere.
And so that goes both ways, both being
able to update that data from somewhere.
Or sending events from anywhere, and
also being able to read
that data from anywhere.
So the way we could do that
in react is via context,
over here I have local time context and
I'm using creates context
from react to do that.
Keep in mind, by the way React context
is different than XState contexts.
Those two terms are basically very
general terms, so just keep that in mind.
So this local context,
we could provide the service and
so what that's going to do
is it's going to provide
something that could be subscribed to.
What's great about this is that this
service, which is the third value
returned from the tuple of use machine,
that service will never change.
It's going to interpret this
clock machine create a service,
and since that service never changes.
We're not gonna get any unnecessary
renders because it's basically a live
object that we could subscribe to, send
events to, without fear of it changing.
Now in our foreign clock
component we could consume
that service by using
the use context hook.
So we use that local time context and
we're going to grab that service.
Now there is a machine provided by or
sorry hook provided by
XState called use service.
It's similar to use machine in
that you get both the States and
we'll call this local time, send.
You get both of those same arguments
that you would get from use machine.
You pass in the service to use service and
basically, you could read the state.
And send in events just like
you could do with a local
machine inside of a use machine.
So we're gonna basically
listen to updates here and
just like the lessons on using
third-party libraries doing.
We are going to be listening for changes
every time this local time states changes.
So whenever it changes we're just going
to send the time to our local machine
over here.
Which is this foreign clock machine and
use that to keep it up to date
with the current local time.
And so now if we go back here,
we select the time zone,
so I'll refresh select the time zone.
Now both of those are gonna
be kept in sync because we're
communicating via components or
sorry, via contexts in react.
So that our components can listen to those
changes and basically use them anywhere.
Now keep in mind that
a service does not necessarily
need to be defined within
a react component.
So you might not even need
to use context to do this,
again this depends on your use case.
Using context is sort of the blessed
way to do it by react, but basically,
if that service comes from somewhere,
you could use it in use service.
Any questions about that?
>> Yeah, so my to understand them
that you could, for example,
just create a machine and
start the service and export.
>> So basically you could
create a service from anywhere,
have it exported as a module and then
import that in basically any components.
Yes, you could technically do that,
I'm not sure how well that's going to
work with things like fast refresh and
concurrent mode and things like that.
But that does work,
it definitely does work,
or at least over here it works, so
>> I can tell
you from experience it does not
work well with fast refresh.
>> With fast refresh?
>> Yeah, react hot loading stuff,
right obviously because
it's not any side of react.
>> Yeah, so be careful of that with fast
refresh if you're using fast refresh,
especially in next JS apps.
You might see some issues and honestly,
that's because react wants control
the state as much as possible but
XState also wants to control the state.
So we are working on making it more
compatible with fast refresh, but
that's not an easy problem to solve.
So [LAUGH] yeah and
that's why I've been doing hard
refreshes pretty often over here.
>> I was gonna ask to I mean so do you
have the service, you could just interact
with that service directly instead of
running it through the hook, right?
>> Yeah, so the question was, can you just
interact with a service directly if you
have a reference to it
instead of through the hook?
Yes, you could absolutely do that,
again for purposes of just being compliant
in the future with fast refresh
concurrent mode, stuff like that.
You would probably still
want to use that hook,
especially because the hook does more than
just provide a reference to that service.
It also manages subscriptions
being able to seamlessly
unsubscribe and
re subscribe if a new service comes in.
So yeah.